+git remote : this command will tell if this branch have remote.
+git remote add <name> <link url> : create remote
+git remote -v : to check if remote is created
+git push <remote name> <branch name> : to push data from PC to remote server.
+git pull <remote name> <branch name> : to pull data to PC from remote server.

1.When would you want to use a remote repository rather than keeping all your work local?
--To collabrate, in group project. so everyone is updated about progress.
--when multiple machines are used for working
--to have backup

2.Why might you want to always pull changes manually rather than having Git automatically stay up-to-date with your remote repository?
-- if it is group project, i don't want content on my machine or work done by me on machine getting automatically over-written.

3.Describe the differences between forks, clones, and branches. When would you use one instead of another?
fork creates online clone on server. but with fork we can refer back to parent repository.
clone is exact copy of complete repository. 
branch is name given to series of commits. 
//
    Branches are labels given to chain of commits with each commit only referencing its parent commit. 
    Branches can be used to test out a new experimental feature or to fix a bug within a repository.
    Clones are exact copies of a remote or even a local repository in a newly created local respository 
    with the history of the commits and realted files. Clones are used to create dulicates of remote 
    files on a local computer and thus enable us to work on them locally.
    Forks are clones of someone else's project on remote repository onto our own remote repository with 
    attribution linking. Forks are used to quickly make clones on a remote repository and enable us to 
    work on a project on our own or even contribute to the project/
//

+ when our remote version is edited and also local version edited then they are out of sync.
+ git fetch will fetch remote version and create that branch
+ we can then merge it with local branch. git fetch allow you to examine changes on your local machine before merging.
+or instead use git pull which will do both fetch and merge
+
+ Fast forward merge : while merging two commits, if one of them is reachable by other then this "merge action" is going to +create that same "other" commit.

4.What is the benefit of having a copy of the last known state of the remote stored locally?
-- it helps in syncing two files. if both versions i.e. local and remote are modified, then when we pull or push , git will merge according to the last known state of the remote stored locally.
The benefit of having a copy of the last known state is it allows you to work offline for a longer period of time while working on add features to the latest code base.
//
   With the last known state of the remote stored locally, after a certain number of changes and 
    modifications commited locally we can find out with git status how far ahead of the remote head 
    is our local branch head. Also, when running fetch given new independent commits to remote branch 
    we can find out if the current local branch is in-sync or out-of-sync with remote branch and 
    approriately run git merge to get a combined output.
//

+ making pull request (important)

5.How would you collaborate without using Git or GitHub? What would be easier, and what would be harder?
-- 
//
    If it were documents, spreadsheets, text files, and presentation, I would have used google drive and 
    docs. This would have enabled me to concurently work with my collaborator on a single file at the same 
    time, see revision history, comments, annotation, etc. This would reduced the overhead with committing, 
    pushing and pulling changes manually and also the apparent lack of real-time collaboration. But on the 
    other hand if it were code (or better yet project with multiple code files and all), we would be using 
    dropbox, GDrive or similar and version each code file by chaning the file name. This would have a 
    compounded complexity very quickly, and the changes and bugs would be very tedious to keep track of. 
//
When would you want to make changes in a separate branch rather than directly in master? What benefits does each approach have?
when we mwke experimental changes, we can use seprate branch so that master branch always have working solution.
if its group project, then other members may be experimenting/making changes simultaneously. hence its good idea they work on different branches and merge afterward as needed.
//
You could make your changes directly to the master branch in your fork, but when contributing to a public repository, it’s standard practice to make the changes in a non-master branch within the fork. This way, you can easily keep your master branch up-to-date with master of the original repository, and merge changes from master into your branch when you are ready.
//
